Title: Sessions 21

----

Bubbletitle: Sessions 2021

----

Sectionitems:

- 
  sectionname: ""
  sectiontext: |
    in-----------------------------------------------------------------------
    INTRO BACKBONE
    
    Introduction
    If it's ok to take notes, and if it's to archive them with the rest, and make them available to the rest of the group. If not, how would we do it? Anonymous notes?
    Why we had this idea: wish to collaborate, need of the scene
    What's the idea: research together, build discourse, utopic possibilities
    Why we invited them: more or less everyone invited to tanzpraxis (politically), mid-career, with a practice in organising spaces and communities, and not too far from our practice "people we know".
    
    Practicals
    How the hourly / fee system works. And how it can be shared with their peers. Each participant is responsible for keeping their hours.
    We will need to make a contract very open "research collaboration".
    Calendar of Sessions options April - December
    Calendar of Support (one day a week for the rest of the year). Does not open before January and will be communicated before opening and probably there will be a sign up system. People can come and we can work on things together. Great if we know in advance more or less what the questions are, so we prepare or split focus.
    We would need a 100% participation confirmation asap.
    
    Content
    The four chapters: Individual Practice, Governance, Ethics, Resources and what do they mean to us and to them. In particular
    Individual Practices (how do we work, what do we need, how do we plan, how do we activate)
    Ethics (what are the values and politics leading our working environment, how to we account for fairness, asymmetries, ecology and sustainability)
    Governance (how information flows, who is accountable, hierarchies, how do we come to decisions, how do we share, if we share, responsibility, how do we evaluate our actions)
    Resources (bodies, finances, time, knowledge, tools)
    Form groups of interest in order to prepare the session. Sessions are open to everybody. Preparation is open to those who subscribe to it. B&S coordinate the process of signing up, forming the groups. After December 1st we will share tools (addresses / names / dates, further meetings coordination).
    Communicate group guidelines? It's a shared responsibility. Who hosts determines the space and takes care of the group. For example through these first meetings it's B&S leading and making mistakes, for the next sessions it will be someone else. This is the proposal.
    
    -----------------------------------------------------------------------
    
    +++++++++++++++++
    OCTOBER 26TH 2021
    WITH LEA AND SIEGMAR:
    
    catch up where we are coming form.
    intro by sarah and barbara
    THIS IS THE FIRST BACKBONE MEETING
    
    Barbara&Sarah: long introduction, agenda explained
    Siegmar: what community bulding and self-organisation means for everyone? How do our definitions differ?
    Siegmar: Different roles, Barbara: sharing spaces and praxis/practises
    Lea: What is funding?/ Agency that can be taken within it? Setting up different frameworks. How to structure different artistic processes? Work it out Platform - lab, research (digital/ analog)- very personal interest /international collaboration (break out from the own bubble). Who is audience? Who percieves?
    Connection: Artistic work/ tragectory / own structure - how can these people be involved?/ Platform as a sharing context/ collaboration. Sense of cooperation. Important to bring in knowledge of practioners in, which are involved in the artistic practice
    Siegmar: Invitation to expand the network, and bring in these views. Huge frustration with self-organisation, esp. in Berlin. Everyone is always away every time, difficult to make a steady collaboration. Did the last months change something in that way? Longing for regular meetings. To be accountable for eachother and to your own.
    
    Workshop recipe: define your practice, claim it, transmit it.
    Interdependence of artistic practice
    Sarah: research format without an end. no "functional process"
    Siegmar/ Lea: question of regular meetings.
    Lea: How to share also the Backbone Support.
    Sarah: Co-responsibility
    Siegmar: if so wants private conversation, you do not need to publish it. If a shared support is wished you can publish it
    Ask for the things I need! And other times that goes for the group.
    Cultivating ways of acknowledging and be clear about the differences.How to lean to overcome the competitiveness.
    Group Dynamic - go beyond personal sympathy. Building a sense of solidarity/ including dis-comfort. We all work on this.
    Lea:making decisions based on schedule / themes/ interest.
    Sarah: commit to some parts in a more intense way, then others. When can I carry, when I can just follow on. Commitment should be done early on in the process.
    Lea: Different roles of participating. Step in as a listener/ witness. What could be a light way to following up.
    Siegmar: what is it to take part in the preparation ...what is it to take the decision People that shape the form. How can we be mentors to eachother? Play within these roles we get asigned.
    Lea. What is that backbone? Being in a good way un-comfortable. learning to be accountable for and with each other. working ethics and politics
    Siegmar: YES to participation
    YES to fee proposal
    YES to commiting to take responsibility for some and following others ... looking forward to the calendar
    Lea: yes, yes, yes (participation, fee proposal, committment, coming towards the project, keeping up track with calendar)
    Siegmar: process (evaluation) meetings with everyone once a season? 4 during the year. WHO IS THIS GROUP!_!
    APPROVED
    
    AND THEN WITH LOUISE
    
    Introduction of who's who: who's Barbara!
    Louise: It's OK to take notes and make them public.
    B: we get into the agenda of today.
    Sarah: LABOR practices, what kind of community we want to bring together, because we are so busy with the scene
    - wanted to work with first layer of their network, personal interest and connection
    - in the arts, labor and personal life intertwine a lot, which is why they started with their community.
    - busy with self-organization
    - invite people who are less into big results and more into process and research
    Louise: There is a lot of connections but also some people I don't know. My practice has shifted from dance, but I am still gravitating in the dance scene from a different perspective. What is my engagement with the scene?
    Barbara: what is COVEN?
    Louise: a sex positive queer feminist gender bender BLOG. A magazine. A living room collective. Exhibition formats. Today we get funding. 6 people. Big artists community regularly engaged. Principles: playfulness, continuity of relationships, hybrid formats, bridging of irl/afk, among other things
    Book: Radical Care/ Sternberg Press https://mitpress.mit.edu/books/radicalizing-care
    35/hour, starting now, invoice whenever, 80 hours total. Spend them however, or use them for sessions, or bring in other people. You are responsible for your own working hours. Question: what counts as backbone and what doesn't?
    
    > Backbone Support
    > Preparation of Sessions
    > Sessions, 4
    
    APRIL - MAY. TANZFABRIK
    I SESSION: individual practices
    II SESSIONS: ethics
    
    SEPTEMBER. RADIALSYSTEM
    III SESSION: governance
    
    DECEMBER. SOPHIENSAELE
    IV SESSION: resources
    
    Backbone support that you can use as a consulting space - one day a week available. This can be about something independant from what is going on in the research sessions. You can also give these to other people. Admin, prod, financial, etc. It's not a huge amount of hours but it's possible. If you need to spend 2 hrs a month figuring out your life you can do it here.
    Starts in Jan
    Sessions: research project you are invited to join as a collaborator
    
    Do I want to do it yes/no - YES! Will send confirmation email.
    what time of year am I available to jump in
    We want to avoid to discuss during the process about the commitment.
    
    Louise: lots of nice things could happen.
    Writing a book partly about the Berlin dance scene, and religious career paths in parallel to dance career.
    Is there a crisis of faith in the dance scene? What was it that we believed in?
    It's a lonely process. Would be great to get support on this: how to get published?
    But also how to share those questions in a public format.
    Interest: Resources. Most probably down for the december one.
    
    We are looking for note takers. - I can ask the SAG mailing list to see if anyone there needs a job. Great!
    350€ a month for a space.
    Look up Evan's old space. Ask Fran?
    Hester killed 2 chickens at PAF.
    
    Louise: I approve these notes. ;)
    
    +++++++++++++++++
    NOVEMBER 3RD 2021
    WITH IXCHEL AND OLYMPIA
    
    > Backbone Support
    > Preparation of Sessions
    > Sessions, 4
    
    APRIL - MAY. TANZFABRIK
    I SESSION: individual practices
    II SESSIONS: ethics
    
    SEPTEMBER. RADIALSYSTEM
    III SESSION: governance
    
    DECEMBER. SOPHIENSAELE
    IV SESSION: resources
    
    Great introduction like the one above:
    Who we are
    How the money works,
    how the calendar works,
    how you can participate.
    
    Olympia: nice the structure feels like we will not waste time.
    Sarah and Barbara are the hosts in the project for 2022.
    
    Turns out both Ixchel and Olympia did SODA.
    Olympia got the artist stamp beacuse she did SODA - great program!
    
    Idea of note taking / indexing
    Qlympia: AG work Culture and Tanzpraxis first encounters in this field in Berlin, but involved in queer activism before coming to Berlin. How can solidarity building work in this environment?
    Active in Die Linke. What kind of politices is possible.
    I became an employer in the last years, what kind of responsibilities come with this.
    As an emergent choreographer how do I make that career my job? What kind of life can I get with my perfromance practice?
    
    The concrete time-frame is good.
    
    Ixchel: Tanzpraxis is just financial support and it corresponds to what I am already doing. Also good to have that security.
    My question is how can other people have that support? I feel the priviled of having had that kind of boost, but how can we make it available?
    I felt the positive results.
    How structures could be built in order to create continuity.
    How to work around accessibility of the field.
    I am interestefd lots in working ethics, what are the responsibilities - what do you offer. Fairness. How to be fair.
    
    Barbarba: the group also share the fact that everyone has an established practice.
    I have the feeling the question of fairness and responisbilities of the choreographer as an employer it's a crucial question. How do we work together.
    
    Ixchel: how do we take those decisions? how different economic realities interact?
    
    Olympia: the structure of the topics works. It intuitevely works. The first thing that comes to my mind is "how tired I am"
    
    Sarah introduces the SPIN and Common Wallet principles > get a talk organised!
    
    Barbara: in Berlin we immediately fall back into the funding, which is fair enough. But are there other tools we can use?
    
    Ixchel: the reality is that we are constantly busy, this creates a very individual practice and isolation
    
    Olympia: the scene is set up in a way that undermines solidarity. Even thought there is a broad consensous around having better working conditions.
    
    Olympia: Approved
    Ixchel: Approved
    
    WITH RONI AND JULIA
    
    WHY BACKBONE???
    Barbara: with Sarah we talked about how the scene works, the gaps, the disfunctions. Sarah brings another prospective from Belgium which is very different. Then there was the occasion of the reconnect application - it became a good excuse to think about long-term support, a good occasion to open a discours around what is long-term support.
    
    Roni: so it's about developing a pilot of what it could be in the long run
    
    Barbara: the project is not finished. For a year B&S host it, but it can change.
    
    Julia: the how long-term support could look like it's something we do together.
    
    Barbara: the community is not representative - we open a format, it comes as a proposal, as an offer. The notes stay public, but this is the only thing that remains. Speaking about the group we choose: it came from personal connections, people we know, people who have a practice in self-organisation, people who got the tanzpraxis.
    
    Inviting also the people who have the tranzpraxis, to have the political aches of a funding, which has this practices of longterm support inherent.
    
    Stong selection, but then buildt a tool to disrupt the frame with the possibility to share the money with someone else.
    
    For next year Backbone has 2 trajectories: the Sessions and the Support.
    
    Sessions:
    APRIL - RADIALSYSTEM
    I SESSION: individual practices
    
    MAY - TANZFABRIK
    II SESSIONS: ethics
    
    SEPTEMBER - TANZFABRIK
    III SESSION: governance
    
    DECEMBER - SOPHIENSAELE
    IV SESSION: resources
    
    Each of us decides, which session/ topics, they want to carry, and which session/ topic they want to follow.
    Groups will self-organize the preparation of the sessions.
    We blocked the studio for 2 days in the venues, but it is also a possibility not to use it and decide for another format.
    There is a technical budget and the hourly rates as budget.
    
    Roni: the topics in relation to what?
    Sarah: The longterm support in the Berlin community. It can be from different perspecitves, also from own practice or the community
    
    Support is something we offer to the community, who is invited into the project. Individual questions you have and want to addres to us. Make it work within your hours.
    You can also use the support hours for other needs you have, not necessaraly with us.
    
    Calender will available to book yourself in for support, follow and carry sessions.
    
    We look for a office/space 2 days/ week
    Note taking information (see above).
    Including other people by inviting them. You care for invited people, feel responsible for your guests.
    
    Sarah: What do you think about it!
    Roni: there is something completely random about the people that I will end up working with. That's also the interesting part of this. I think the group is quite random.
    
    Julia: I have a question, is good to get the explanation of how this group came together. Very open, the differences shall touch interesting points, not become obstacles.
    
    Roni: how do I get to choose who do I want to work with.
    Sarah: Make your own path, get involved. Structure allows to make own decisions.
    
    Julia: these topics. I need to process and think about it - and find a reason for it.
    Sarah: It is also an invitation to disrupt it (speaking not as a host, but as practicioner).
    Julia: It is concret, but at the same time so open. It is also abstract. What is for example carrying?
    Roni: It is going to materialze.
    
    Barbara: it is not the first time that the composition of the group is problematised. Do we need a tool to meet this need? How do we create a space to be all in the same space?
    
    Roni: how can we actually work on something together. What are the tools we use for that.
    
    Julia: this is one of the questions that we open to group.
    
    Roni: without this project I would never seat in a room with some of the participants.
    
    Sarah: Assumption that there is a public responsibility. Everybody in the group is creating work conditions for others, which we have in common.Creating work conditions is not an individual practice, more a political responsibility.
    Overcoming the problematics of the group dynamic.
    Roni: There is so much failure that has happend already and maybe this is just another one.
    
    Barbara: we have tried this so many times! I know, we failed so many times. We are circling around it constantly.
    
    Roni: we have to keep on trying!
    
    Julia: topics and words used very much, keep coming back and keep activating conversations. It raises skeptisism - at the end of the day you are alone in front of your computer trying to send this application. There is a bit of lazyness that carries the skeptiscism.
    
    Sarah: As we do things we think about doing things. Connected to the the Support system (Ping Pong between the thinking)
    Julia: raising more questions then conclusions. Good to know there is someting happening next year. Tanzpraxis was a shift, the sensation at least.
    
    Roni: approved
    Julia: approved
    
    ++++++++++++++++++
    NOVEMBER 11TH 2021
    WITH ALICE, MARIA
    
    INTRODUCTIONS!
    Barbara is a producer and organiser with a thing for politics and work conditions. For this reasons she jumped into the idea of making Backbone.
    Sarah is producer active between Berlin/ Brussels and explains the principles of SPIN. A lot of international distribution, likes technical stuff / backstage addicted.
    Alice working as dance person since adulthood. making pieces together with other people, sometimes on her own. Gradually more teaching. 2000s concentration on collaboration/ collectives/ spaces/ opportunities . 2010s direction of arts centre in France for 3 years and becoming a mother, then change of structure in the way I work: no longer project oriented, shift to making scores and teaching. Work mostly supported by teaching - as long as I have enough teaching opportunities I can support my movement research (what is the public life of these dances?). I might become a not-full time prof at HZT from April, or not, which means possibly a big shift in my work reality.
    Maria loves dancing since she was a child. RAI! CANALE 5! TV gigs! understanding dance became more complex.being paid for something this is plesuare. Getting to know many great people. Hosting workshops since she started. Berlin /San Francisco. Topic of healing came as a package. Creates on invitation/ communal. Hosting communities. Also getting money from teaching and create in the cracks. Never applied for a piece. Tanzpraxis achnnoklegdes that practice. Produce not a product is still difficult, so creating automonous forms.
    Alice and Marie share working on commisions and responding on invitation.
    
    Introduction of Backbone (as above)
    Sarah:Re-distribution of the budget (2800 EUR) is possible. Responsibility of budget and hours is on you.
    Backbone Sessions and Support (as above)
    Making available our expertices and are hosting is for these time frame (Sarah/ Barbara).
    Very much about self-organisation of needs.
    Sessions:
    APRIL - RADIALSYSTEM
    I SESSION: individual practices
    
    MAY - TANZFABRIK
    II SESSIONS: ethics
    
    SEPTEMBER - TANZFABRIK
    III SESSION: governance
    
    DECEMBER - SOPHIENSAELE
    IV SESSION: resources
    
    The group who is forming/carrying the session, descides how the session looks like (open/ closed, live/ online).
    Community pad/ Note taking as a documentation.
    We propose a format that is fixed, and there is space for disruption.
    Beginning of December we send calender for the year and then you decide quite clearly how you want to engage.
    
    Alice: Seperating ethics, governance and resources from individual practice is quite difficult. They are strongly connected.
    What's the intention of the project? Are we actually going to build a structure? Are we working with the intention to build something together? What is the drive in the first place? Go beyond the research. What kind of commitment is possible, what kind of support? Going from momentum to momentum is tyering.
    Barbara: it's hard to define now, but it's the underline drive that might build momentum
    Maria: using this time individually and together to think about a possible structure. How to build cushion / pillow structure - find resources and mutualise them. Lots of thinks come up, emerge, and are out of the skill set. When there is an emergency who do you ask to. Build a database?
    Sarah: Potential of mixing up skills. Infrastrucure as a practice itself. The needs that are needed.
    Maria: There is infrastructure in Berlin. Community classes are so vital. Structures that are made available to the community
    Sarah: There are already things that have been done in Berlin.
    Alice: To know already what has been done feeds into new projects like this.
    Maria: How to commune and formulate. Make the space responsible. A space to create continuity.
    Alice: community center is great! Something like a community school. Continuity changes everything!
    Maria: tried to offer sessions in different spaces. Equa community center in Wedding: business model! Part of your income can come by doing community work.
    Sarah: community / institutional economy.
    Maria: Not going back to the model before the pandemic.
    
    maria: approved
    alice: approved
    
    +++++++++++++++++
    NOVEMBER 18TH 2021
    WITH AGATA
    
    Introduction Sarah (as above)
    AGATA: what were the frustrations why did you start Backbone?
    BARBARA: Project-based prospective is the problem, I want to build long-term prospective. There are a lot of discussions already happening in Berlin, but they stop or not get practical. I want to work differently.
    Sarah: frustration in Berlin, as there are no long term prospects. only project based.How can the producer bring value, what is not only admin. Cherish idea of community processes.
    Agata: Many things are resonating. Lot of discussions around this frustration. We do it becasue we need to pay our bills.
    Huge question how to sustain my practice. Search/longing for long time companions. I never had a producer. Never got production money from the city. not interested in success, but I want certain financial seccurity.
    HZT BA and SODA finished. Missing conversation between insitutions and artists. Basic Income for artists, would change our way in terms of competition. Not much solidarity in the scene. Many people not so interested in the big success, but interested to work.
    Jalousy! Bad! Dream of producing every three years - not every year. I am busy with ecology, being situated in the world - it's not ecological to produce so much. We need time / we need money. Also - I am not managing to get money here, why not? I need a chance to work in city.
    I am part of some initiatives, one of them ZTB (Mateusz and Kasia) / work culture, Eva Meyer-Keller REACH OUT project. She got Reconnect again and wants to think about how to make it available to others. We are friends! How does frienship connects with work / artistic practice.
    Reference Virginia Woolf, Room of ones one
    Group forming: The group is not a representative group. We needed to start with the group wit people we work with. Secondly people that do already self-organized practice/ community work, third Tanzpraxis people, which match the two first groups.
    Position as an employer to create conditions for others.
    Further conversation on this.
    Vulva Collective over 6 years without funding, in the last year there was funding and then it stopped. Making time for it.
    Very horizontal structure in the beginning. Lerning process of delegating and learning process. Longest collaboration.
    Sarah: Practial Info (conditions) : recap by e-mail of this
    No policing of the own budget. Possibility to give it away. Everyone is in charge of external invitations, they bring in.
    Tranparency principle of budget.
    
    Explanation of the Sessions/ Support
    
    Sessions:
    APRIL - RADIALSYSTEM
    I SESSION: individual practices
    
    MAY - TANZFABRIK
    II SESSIONS: ethics
    
    SEPTEMBER - TANZFABRIK
    III SESSION: governance
    
    DECEMBER - SOPHIENSAELE
    IV SESSION: resources
    
    Each session is co-prepared by a group. Principle of carrying and following.
    
    Agata: Do you have in mind what you want from each of this session? What kind of knowledge do you want to create?
    Sarah: No authorship from Sarah and Barbara on the sessions. Backbone does not need to have any results.
    As an individual as Sarah there is the interest for example to set up a structure.
    Agata: Certain direction of thinking? How to go into action?
    
    Sarah: Need to find agencys.
    
    Agata: Group with very different agendas. Call of all of the desires we have towards production and ways of working.
    
    Sarah: Transparent system of group building to be developed.
    Support is a personal space to spend the budget on.
    
    WITH GRETCHEN
    Introduction on structure as above
    Sarah: as above / SPIN principle of common pot/ Bringing the experinnceinto BAckbone.
    BARBARA: long-term relations with artists, difficulties in doing that, curious about what other models are possible.
    GRETCHEN: often works from project to project. Working repetevly is very necesary.
    Ausland since 2012, hosting since 2013 like residencies, performances. Evolved over time. What do people need? Having a space run from artist by artists. Passion for music! Collective work at Ausland had difficulties, so it was a bit hard to commit to another group (at the moment).
    Functionality can overtake the interest in long term collective processes.
    SARAH: Budget we shared is the project we have.
    Sessions as research over the year. Support more indvidiula engagement.
    Alternative models of sustainable structures/ possibilities. Invited fist people from our personal networks. People busy with self organization practice. People from Tanzpraxis. Not prject oriented way of working. Not a very representative group. Berlin based and dance context. Hsoting work conditions for others. Sets up working conditions as shared moment of everyone.
    Explantion of the budget (80 h/ 35 EUR for everyone, spent on Sessions, Support or sahred with others). Up to eveyone how to spent it, but be responsible to pass it on to others is up to each individual.
    GRETCHEN: What are the sessions? What is support?
    SARAH: Support is answer on the long term support. Space that is open 2 times a week. Making our practice available for individual questions. People can also work by themsleves. Everyoene can also offer their own practice within this space (community space). Co-responsibe for the space.
    
    Sessions:
    APRIL - RADIALSYSTEM
    I SESSION: individual practices
    
    MAY - TANZFABRIK
    II SESSIONS: ethics
    
    SEPTEMBER - TANZFABRIK
    III SESSION: governance
    
    DECEMBER - SOPHIENSAELE
    IV SESSION: resources
    
    Each session is co-organized by the group. Principle of carrying/ following.  Self-organized by the specific group. No request for productivity, apart from the notes.
    GRETCHEN: How is the group formed for each topic?
    SARAH: Sytsem for this will be established (calender/ list where/how the groups forminhg will be transparent). Until the end of january to form the group.
    
    No Authorship on what should it be.
    
    GRETCHEN: Very nice to have a clarification of everything. How the group is seen as an organism / how people can come into this framework. Sounds great! It's a tryout, will this format work? Berlin is so transitory, it can be very feeding to bring people together.
    
    SARAH: Question of community is important to you?
    GRETCHEN: A place to return to. Red thread throughout the year, maybe. Is it open to the public the sessions?
    
    SARAH: it is up to the group. Keep the options open.
    
    GRETCHEN: is more structural funding than I initially thought reading the application -
    Having a space as experience from ausland. can we host workshops on accessibilty?
    Sensibilty workshop would be great for the community. Mabye something we can co-host.
    
    GRETCHEN: Intention of the notes?
    SARAH: It is the idea of a report of the project. Build a body of cloudy thinking.
    
    gretchen: approved
    
    ++++++++++++++++++
    NOVEMBER 25TH 2021
    WITH XENIA
    
    SARAH (short introduction to meeting as above)
    How did we get to this project: S&B met and talk how difficult it is to establish long term relationships and the problem of funding shaping work relationships. Sarah brought in the Belgian discours and tools which was inspiring.
    SARAH: community lead within the blurry bounderies within the dance scene in Berlin.
    Composition of people, who are around in our circles, people who work/ experience already in this self organized parctice, and Tanzpraxis people. It is not a representative group.
    
    XENIA: Collaboration with Sophia Neisse on audiodisciption, Workshops on Sensibilisierung, Ableism,
    Project with Gabi Beier "this is not a project" (sustainability lab), on the level emotional, physical, economic, ... Handing in the format on to other people. Could be an interesting tool to bring to this format.
    
    SARAH: B+S are the host of this project, but do not have authorship on what is produced or what comes out.
    Give agency to the group through time and money. Payment system: 80h by 35 EUR/h - 2.800 EUR. We do not police/ control how hours are spent. Independent descision how many hour to spent or not to spent on the project, possibility to give away your hours. You host your guests.
    Backbone has two parts: Sessions (collective research) and Support (on own individual needs/ practice), Support can also happen between the participants.
    
    2 days/ week in a space: 1 day is support hour with B+S / 1 day community space
    
    Sessions is the research part, is a pretty formal structure to start from, which can taken apart:
    
    APRIL - RADIALSYSTEM
    I SESSION: individual practices
    
    MAY - TANZFABRIK
    II SESSIONS: ethics
    
    SEPTEMBER - TANZFABRIK
    III SESSION: governance
    
    DECEMBER - SOPHIENSAELE
    IV SESSION: resources
    
    Sessions are totally self-organized.
    We have 2 days reserved in the venues for collective gathering, but still up to the group, that organizes the session.
    Organization of a pad, how to organize each sub-groups / Signal Group to organize.
    You can follow or carry sessions aaccording to your time and interest.
    
    XENIA: Many things resonates with me, I do not need to think about it so much, so I am in.
    
    SARAH: Continuity came up as a central factor in talks before.
    
    XENIA: Thinking it without a space, makes it more blurry. Space makes it real. Busy with the question of process introduction. Format you are proposing is already a model. It is already in the doing. Maybe in the end we come out with a different model, then what we started with. Structure is already very different, from what we do NOT have at the moment. Question of sustainability lab was pretty similar. We are changed by it and from there we can do things differently.New possibilities of doing things.
    It was only 9 days with a fixed group, there was not so much talking actually.
    Very intersectional group - from the dance field. I can share a google doc maybe?
    What we doing is the outcome.
    Note taking on an own pad, which is automaticly online, when approved.
    Great Italian web designers will makes this massive text material/navigation around more playfull.
    NOTE TAKING IS REALLY IMPORTANT ALSO IN THE PREPARATION SESSIONS!
    Leaving traces is important.
    XENIA: Circulating the hosting, for this kind of projects.
    
    Xenia: Notes approved
    
    WITH MANON
    INTRODUCTION AND PRESENTATION OF THE AGENDA OF TODAY.
    THE STORY OF HOW BARBARA INVITED SARAH FOR A COFFEE WHEN SHE WAS DESPERATE BECAUSE OF THE PANDEMIC APOCALYPSE AND STOPPING AS A PRODUCTION MANAGER.
    AND THEY HAD THE IDEA OF WRITING THIS PROJECT.
    LET'S TALK ABOUT LONG-TERM SUPPORT OF ARTISTIC PRACTICE.
    HOW THE GROUP CAME ABOUT: PEOPLE FROM B&S NETWORK, PEOPLE FROM THE DANCE SCENE, PEOPLE BUSY WITH SELF-ORGANISATION, PEOPLE WITH TANZPRAXIS.
    SARAH: SPIN is a cooperative of art workers based in Brussels. Re-distribution of the resources/ income. Happy collective processes! New process starting with the new funding based on a basic income.
    How to bridge experience of SPIN with experience in Berlin. Bring this discourse into the practice here.
    
    MANON: There are intentions here as well for the long term.
    
    SARAH: Group has in common, that they at least once in their life invited people in their own proceses. Being an employer.
    
    MANON: Usually invited, but never had funding myself to host. Not having the strenght and space to do it. It costs me so much to write an application. Not enough time and a bit confused about it.
    
    SARAH: Create a system to be autonomous of who is part ot the group. 80h/ 35EUR/h total budget 2800 EUR.(explanation see above)
    
    Support/ Session
    Backbone has two parts: Sessions (collective research) and Support (on own individual needs/ practice), Support can also happen between the participants (peer to peer).
    Support
    2 days/ week in a space: 1 day is support hour with B+S / 1 day community space
    
    Research part (Session) is a more fixed dramaturgy
    
    APRIL - RADIALSYSTEM
    I SESSION: individual practices
    
    MAY - TANZFABRIK
    II SESSIONS: ethics
    
    SEPTEMBER - TANZFABRIK
    III SESSION: governance
    
    DECEMBER - SOPHIENSAELE
    IV SESSION: resources
    
    Four chapters create the body of research.
    The sessions will be self-organized, the groups will decide what to do on these dates.
    Indvidual choice of carrying and/or following the sessions. Very much up to you how to spend your time. No control system of hours, only yourself.
    
    MANON: IS THERE AN OUTCOME?
    BARBARA: WE HAVE A DOCUMENTATION THROUGH NOTE TAKING ONLY.
    
    The one that invites, hosts this person. Take care for the communication and pass on information.
    Studio 4/ Tanzfabrik is available to use in May for 4 weeks.
    
    MANON: Feels better then a grant. It is held.
    
    Manon : notes approved
    
    ++++++++++++++++++
    DECEMBER 1ST 2021
    WITH JARED, ANGELA, GIULIA AND KASIA
    
    PRESENTATIONS
    Barbara Greiner! is a producer and production manager from the dance field. Does not do much project to project but cherish long-term collaborations. This is also the motivation and frustration that appeared dureing corona times, and motivated the beginning of Backbone.
    
    Angela Alves! Choreographer and dancer living in Berlin. Doing many different things: production work, dramaturgy, I am part of differeng working groups trying to find different methods to deconstruct the system. I am thinking a lot about access and sustainability.
    
    Giulia Messia! is a producer working in Berlin since 6 years. Main expertise in international distribution / production. Very much connected with Rome where I run a festival. I am in-between two cities! Since a couple of years I am in the "free scene" - still getting oriented. How to create long-term relationships? Working with Eva Meyer-Keller.
    
    Sarah Parolin: based between Berlin and Brussels, active in the international performance field for over a decade, mostlz busy with international touring and distribution; coming from activist background, SPIN Collective (Brussels) - e.g. collectivizing income and redistributing it, in Berlin - consulting jobs
    
    Kasia: dancer, choreographer and a writer. From Poland. Which is important for my work, interested in the East and West tension. Interested in doing political work, how do dance and politics entangle. Since the last two years I am thinking how to change art making for something more fulfilling and sustainable
    
    Jared: choreographer and a dancer, I made the garden in uferstudios. Searching for new forms of coexistence while working within artistic forms. And most recently the last 8 years with nature. Creating gardens both in green form and other. Sharing cocreative practices with nature in different forms. Supporting individual's approaches of working with nature as a partner. Searching for regenerative strategies..closed looped systems in and out of artistic practices.
    
    HOW WE BUILD THE GROUP
    Invite people we work with (people we already have a working
    People who already have interest in self-organisation / community work
    People who received tanzpraxis meaning interested and have experimented in a non-project oriented funding
    People who have experience in producing and hosting other people in a work environment.
    
    PRACTICALS
    Each participants is paid 80h at 35€ for a total of 2.800€ which can be spent in this project in different ways.
    We will make a contract as a research collaborator.
    You can spend it in the Support or in the Sessions.
    Support is office hours at Fortuna you can come with your questions / or use for your own development.
    Sessions is research time.
    Support: as indivdual as you want for your different individual long term practice.
    Expertice, which is important to you and you can use this money for this.
    Taking responsibility is at the core. Nobody will check the hours you spent on the project. We talk about money today, but not anymore after that.
    That is the framwork.
    
    Sessions: Collective research of the group around four topics. Organisational theory (individual practice, ethics, governance, resources).
    Fixed dramaturgy, four moments throughout the year. Each session is organized around a group.
    
    APRIL - RADIALSYSTEM
    I SESSION: individual practices
    
    MAY - TANZFABRIK
    II SESSIONS: ethics
    
    SEPTEMBER - TANZFABRIK
    III SESSION: governance
    
    DECEMBER - SOPHIENSAELE
    IV SESSION: resources
    
    Group decides which session to carry and which to follow. Decicion to take where and how you spent your time within the project.
    Calender to make it transparent, what you have decided on - carry or follow a session- or not.
    Sessions can be public, but do not need to. the group decides, the venue do not expect a public event. there are dates reserved and then we see.
    Throught the process S+B will be the hosts. There is no authorship on the process by us.
    
    Note taking is the only outcome of the project. will be on the website,
    
    KASIA: I am paid for being supported, but also I can be asked to support someone. But I can also decide not to, right?
    GULIA: Can we also decide to invest this money in another project?
    SARAH: You can also invite other people into the project. you can decide yourself.
    There will be tools to communicate and make information transparent to the group.
    
    JARED: Will that Platform also be a way for us to offer ourselves to others in the group?
    SARAH: Project is a framework for different decisions to coexist.
    
    GULIA: is there a moment, where we are all together?
    
    SARAH: Fortuna Space in Neukoelln can be a regular meeting space. 2 days a week.
    
    JARED: (has to leave now) So grateful for the invitation and for all of the thought already put into it! Inspiring. I am sorry i have to leave early. I will read through all of the notes in the next days. Nice to meet and see you all. Until next time.
    
    SARAH: Decisions on the sessions before we start.
    
    ANGELA: Is there a description of the 4 topics to have a closer look? Is there another space for meeting to get a feeling for the topics.
    
    SARAH: We made a discription, of what it is for us. We tried a framework with definitions, which we give. Invitation is to form groups based on this definitions, but the group can decide to distrube this decision.
    
    First meeting could be open to everyone before starting preparing the session.
    
    KASIA: Objective for after the year? Helpful to have an idea, what are we actually testing? Can this group continue in any way? What is the perspective?
    
    ANGELA: This is a big part of the problem, exactly the project work we are facing. We developed all this tools and ideas, and then it stopps. No time, money space and take care  of it and go from there.
    
    KASIA: I can also going with that nothing has to be achieved.
    I could be extremly difficult reagrding self-organisation, experience from the working group: Working culture.
    
    ANGELA Big difference, that the working group Work culture is not paid.
    Opportunity to take responsibility with the hourly payment and practice it.
    
    SARAH: Occassion to share and change tragectory. Same questions in other meetings, what is the drive.
    Personal drive to make something concrete. And everyone has there own individual drive.
    Listen to my own voice and at the same time listen to the room and then balance these two voices.
    Openess we can use.
    
    KASIA: First thought, I want to invest in myself.
    If nothing comes out of it, and if we don't manage to self-organize, than it is all ok.
    
    GULIA: Questions from Kasia and Angela also resonate with me, but I also trust S+B.
    
    KASIA: B+S are not supervisors of the projects as I understood. You would not filling in the gaps, right?
    
    SARAH: Not supervison but participation. It is a hosted project not a led project.
    
    KASIA: What does it mean not to engage / be a follower.
    
    ANGELA: It is also important to get supported with this idea. I did a residency in Sophiensaele called "new techniques" there was a lot of money available. I was able to invite people and spread the money. The I ended up having people working "for" me - suddenly I need to feed this people. How to create co-responsability / co-decision making?
    
    SARAH: Creates also possibilities for your free time. Space of self-evaluation. Work with a different monetary system.
    
    ANGELA: It takes time to start thinking in that money system. What can I do and what can I offer?
    
    Kasia:approved
    
    WITH SHEENA AND CLEMENT
    SARAH: Introduction as above. This is already a Backbone hour that can be invoiced, if you step out after this meeting.
    
    Different way of thinking way and making things happen. What it means of long term support in the Berlin scene.
    People involved: Who do we want to work with? first invitation to people we already had a chance to work with, people who have a practice of self organisation, tanzpraxis -less project oriented more basic income orientated, people who create work conditions for others.
    Also based in the dance scene. Group is not representative and also not very diverse.
    You are invited as organizers, having/ giving spaces, families, communities, busy with this topics.
    
    Group needs the agency to expand. -> practicalities.
    80 h by 35 EUR/h-> 2.800 EUR in total. You can spend it in 2 blocks - Support / Sessions
    Long term support for your own practice - whatever you need it for - therapy, familiy support, ...or you spent it onother people to invite / peer to peer support, or the time B+S make ourself available to work with. We will be 1 day / week available in the shop.
    We have a space Fortuna on Karl-Marx Str. where we have two days/ week.
    Money is completly indvidually organized.  No one counts hours to engage in the project.
    We do not negotiate the conditions after this meeting.
    
    Sessions is a more collaborative space, run research analysis on long term support, and what does it mean in the scene of Berlin.
    4 Gatherings organized by the group.
    
    APRIL - RADIALSYSTEM
    I SESSION: individual practices
    
    MAY - TANZFABRIK
    II SESSIONS: ethics
    
    SEPTEMBER - TANZFABRIK
    III SESSION: governance
    
    DECEMBER - SOPHIENSAELE
    IV SESSION: resources
    
    Smaller groups coming together carrying one or more of this sessions. Those who prepare are carrying the session, the others can follow.
    Starting from this fixed structure, but open to disrupt.
    
    Venues do not have expectations towards the outcome of this research/ project. So you can do whatever you want there (public/ not public// using venue/ or not using the venue).
    
    B+S are hosting the project (calender, coffee, mail communication, conditions...), no level of authorship in regards of the projects
    
    SHEENA: Invitation feels familiar to me. Different minds of thinking, and how can they intersect.
    
    CLEMENT: Meet with the group I already have to discuss that idea is also possible?
    SARAH: Calender System is transparent to everyone and shared, to organize our time.
    Second day is open and more self-organzed to use for own practice or thinking further or use it to prepare sessions.
    
    SHEENA: form of communication and flow of information
    
    SARAH: Signal group/ Collaborative writing pad on the website. There will be also a shared calendar and also some e-mail.
    
    SHEENA: there is Tanzplatform coming up! Would be great to do something. How to make this visible? It's in the air! Maybe I can propose another session. How to create impact/how to resonate through the scene.
    
    B+SHEENA talk about Tanzplatform a bit.
    SHEENA. has an amazing distribution/ tour manager now! Happy, Happy, Happy and question how to bring her in.
    SARAH: The hosting for people you bring into the system, is your responsibility.
    
    We will send a mail tomorrow with all the information you need.
    Venues are booked for 2-3 days to come
    
    SHEENA: Heizhaus new conecpt towards a community centre. Less directed and curated.
    - List of ressources of the group (shared spaces/hidden ressources)
    
    
    __NOPUBLISH__
    
    Welcome to Constant Etherpad!
    
    These pads are public. To prevent them from appearing in the archive and the RSS feed on Constant, put the word __NOPUBLISH__ (including surrounding double underscores) anywhere in your pad.
    Pads are archived every night around 04:00 CET at http://etherdump.constantvzw.org
    
    To stay informed about Constant infrastructures, please subscribe to this mailinglist: https://tumulte.domainepublic.net/cgi-bin/mailman/listinfo/infrastructures
    More about the way pads work: https://pad.constantvzw.org/p/etherpads

----

Bubbletype: bubble

----

Childrenbubbles: 